docs/source/en/model_doc/seed_oss.md, before:

<!-- 
# Copyright 2025 Bytedance-Seed Ltd and the HuggingFace Inc. team. All rights reserved.
#
# Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
# you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
# You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License. -->

# SeedOss

## Overview

To be released with the official model launch.

### Model Details

To be released with the official model launch.

## Usage tips

To be released with the official model launch.

## SeedOssConfig

[[autodoc]] SeedOssConfig

## SeedOssModel

[[autodoc]] SeedOssModel
    - forward

## SeedOssForCausalLM

[[autodoc]] SeedOssForCausalLM
    - forward

## SeedOssForSequenceClassification

[[autodoc]] SeedOssForSequenceClassification
    - forward

## SeedOssForTokenClassification

[[autodoc]] SeedOssForTokenClassification
    - forward

## SeedOssForQuestionAnswering

[[autodoc]] SeedOssForQuestionAnswering
    - forward

Commit message:

Fix model cards and modalities in toctree

docs/source/en/model_doc/seed_oss.md, after:

<!--
 Copyright 2025 Bytedance-Seed Ltd and the HuggingFace Inc. team. All rights reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.

⚠️ Note that this file is in Markdown but contain specific syntax for our doc-builder (similar to MDX) that may not be
rendered properly in your Markdown viewer.

-->
*This model was released on {release_date} and added to Hugging Face Transformers on 2025-08-22.*

# SeedOss

## Overview

To be released with the official model launch.

### Model Details

To be released with the official model launch.

## Usage tips

To be released with the official model launch.

## SeedOssConfig

[[autodoc]] SeedOssConfig

## SeedOssModel

[[autodoc]] SeedOssModel
    - forward

## SeedOssForCausalLM

[[autodoc]] SeedOssForCausalLM
    - forward

## SeedOssForSequenceClassification

[[autodoc]] SeedOssForSequenceClassification
    - forward

## SeedOssForTokenClassification

[[autodoc]] SeedOssForTokenClassification
    - forward

## SeedOssForQuestionAnswering

[[autodoc]] SeedOssForQuestionAnswering
    - forward
